# My curated list of FAQs on AWS Lambda

## What's AWS Lambda?
- AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform provided by Amazon as part of Amazon Web Services.
- It's a computing service that runs code in response to events and automatically manages the computing resources required by that code.
- Introduced in November 2014
- It's a _Function as a Service (FaaS)_ by AWS
- Lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers
- Pay only for compute time you consumed - no charge when the code isn't running
- Automatically scale  up and down your code to handle workload with high availability
- Code can be setup to be automatically triggered from AWS services or call it directly from using HTTP

### [AWS Lambda FAQ](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/faqs/)

## What is serverless computing?
Serverless computing allows you to build and run applications and services without thinking about servers. With serverless computing, your application still runs on servers, but all the server management is done by AWS.

## What events can trigger an AWS Lambda function?
- [Supported event sources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invoking-lambda-function.html#intro-core-components-event-sources)


## What languages does AWS Lambda support?
AWS Lambda natively supports following languales and runtime
- Java
- Go
- PowerShell
- Node.js
- C#
- Python
- Ruby

## What are core components of Lambda?
- Lambda functions and event sources are the core components of AWS Lambda
- An event source is the entity that publishes events
- A Lambda function is the custom code that processes the events.
- [Further Read : AWS Lambda Event Source Mapping](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/intro-invocation-modes.html)

## When should I use AWS Lambda versus Amazon EC2?
__Amazon EC2__ offers flexibility, with a wide range of instance types and the option to customize the operating system, network and security settings, and the entire software stack, allowing you to easily move existing applications to the cloud. With Amazon EC2 you are responsible for provisioning capacity, monitoring fleet health and performance, and designing for fault tolerance and scalability.

__AWS Lambda__ makes it easy to execute code in response to events, such as changes to Amazon S3 buckets, updates to an Amazon DynamoDB table, or custom events generated by your applications or devices. With Lambda you do not have to provision your own instances; Lambda performs all the operational and administrative activities on your behalf, including capacity provisioning, monitoring fleet health, applying security patches to the underlying compute resources, deploying your code, running a web service front end, and monitoring and logging your code. AWS Lambda provides easy scaling and high availability to your code without additional effort on your part.

## Can I access the infrastructure that AWS Lambda runs on?
No

## How does AWS Lambda isolate my code?
Each AWS Lambda function runs in its own isolated environment, with its own resources and file system view. AWS Lambda uses the same techniques as Amazon EC2 to provide security and separation at the infrastructure and execution levels.

## How does AWS Lambda secure my code?
AWS Lambda stores code in Amazon S3 and encrypts it at rest. AWS Lambda performs additional integrity checks while your code is in use.

## What AWS regions are available for AWS Lambda?
Please refer the [ AWS Global Infrastructure Region Table](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regional-product-services/)

## What is an AWS Lambda function?
The code you run on AWS Lambda is uploaded as a “Lambda function”. Each function has associated configuration information, such as its name, description, entry point, and resource requirements. The code must be written in a “stateless” style i.e. it should assume there is no affinity to the underlying compute infrastructure. Local file system access, child processes, and similar artifacts may not extend beyond the lifetime of the request, and any persistent state should be stored in Amazon S3, Amazon DynamoDB, or another Internet-available storage service. Lambda functions can include libraries, even native ones.

## Will AWS Lambda reuse function instances?
To improve performance, AWS Lambda may choose to retain an instance of your function and reuse it to serve a subsequent request, rather than creating a new copy. 

## What if I need scratch space on disk for my AWS Lambda function?

Each Lambda function receives 500MB of non-persistent disk space in its own /tmp directory.

## Why must AWS Lambda functions be stateless?
Keeping functions stateless enables AWS Lambda to rapidly launch as many copies of the function as needed to scale to the rate of incoming events. While AWS Lambda’s programming model is stateless, your code can access stateful data by calling other web services, such as Amazon S3 or Amazon DynamoDB

## Can I use threads and processes in my AWS Lambda function code?

Yes. AWS Lambda allows you to use normal language and operating system features, such as creating additional threads and processes. Resources allocated to the Lambda function, including memory, execution time, disk, and network use, must be shared among all the threads/processes it uses. You can launch processes using any language supported by Amazon Linux.

## What restrictions apply to AWS Lambda function code?

Lambda attempts to impose as few restrictions as possible on normal language and operating system activities, but there are a few activities that are disabled: 
- Inbound network connections are blocked by AWS Lambda, and for outbound connections only TCP/IP and UDP/IP sockets are supported
- ptrace (debugging) system calls are blocked.
- TCP port 25 traffic is also blocked as an anti-spam measure.

## How do I create an AWS Lambda function using the Lambda console?

- [Getting started](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-east-1)
- You can also package the code (and any dependent libraries) as a ZIP and upload it using the AWS Lambda console from your local environment
- or specify an Amazon S3 location where the ZIP file is located.
- Uploads must be no larger than 50MB (compressed).
- You can use the AWS Eclipse plugin to author and deploy Lambda functions in Java. You can use the Visual Studio plugin to author and deploy Lambda functions in C#, and Node.js.

## Does AWS Lambda support environment variables?

Yes. You can easily create and modify environment variables from the AWS Lambda Console, CLI or SDKs. [Refer the documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/env_variables.html)

## Can I store sensitive information in environment variables?

For sensitive information, such as database passwords, we recommend you use client-side encryption using AWS Key Management Service and store the resulting values as ciphertext in your environment variable. You will need to include logic in your AWS Lambda function code to decrypt these values.

## Can I share code across functions?

Yes, you can package any code (frameworks, SDKs, libraries, and more) as a [Lambda Layer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-layers.html) and manage and share them easily across multiple functions.

## How do I monitor an AWS Lambda function?

AWS Lambda automatically monitors Lambda functions on your behalf, reporting real-time metrics through Amazon CloudWatch, including total requests, account-level and function-level concurrency usage, latency, error rates, and throttled requests. You can view statistics for each of your Lambda functions via the Amazon CloudWatch console or through the AWS Lambda console. You can also call third-party monitoring APIs in your Lambda function

## How do I troubleshoot failures in an AWS Lambda function?

AWS Lambda automatically integrates with Amazon CloudWatch logs, creating a log group for each Lambda function and providing basic application lifecycle event log entries, including logging the resources consumed for each use of that function. You can easily insert additional logging statements into your code. You can also call third-party logging APIs in your Lambda function. CloudWatch Logs rates will apply.

## How are compute resources assigned to an AWS Lambda function?

In the AWS Lambda resource model, you choose the amount of memory you want for your function, and are allocated proportional CPU power and other resources. For example, choosing 256MB of memory allocates approximately twice as much CPU power to your Lambda function as requesting 128MB of memory and half as much CPU power as choosing 512MB of memory. You can set your memory in 64MB increments from 128MB to 3GB.

## How long can an AWS Lambda function execute?

AWS Lambda functions can be configured to run up to 15 minutes per execution. You can set the timeout to any value between 1 second and 15 minutes.

## Does AWS Lambda support versioning?

Yes. By default, each AWS Lambda function has a single, current version of the code. Clients of your Lambda function can call a specific version or get the latest implementation. [Please refer documentation on versioning Lambda functions](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/versioning-aliases.html)

